---
layout:     post
title:      "Lipstick"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2021-10-23 13:43:00
author:     "Gurpreet Singh Battu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
    - A
---

Lipstick. (Noun). Wilful coloration of lips, mostly by women, matching with the attire.

Coloration by chewing beetle nut and blood stained lips of vampires are not included.

The practice of wearing colours on lips was started by women of position in the early history, to represent their power. Down the line, it also started to symbolise married status.

Lipstick is supposed to stay where it is intended to be put. But it has this nasty habit of travelling to other sites and give rise to speculations and stories.

It travels to rims of drinking glasses and cigarette butts.

The wealthy wife enters her home and finds the home ransacked and her businessman hubby mummified in duct tape. She frantically calls the police.

The inspector comes to the crime scene.The wealthy man has been tied up, gagged, blind folded and robbed of his precious possessions.

“How many people were there?”

“I don’t know. I heard voices of four or five people. Though when I answered the doorbell, there were two and they overpowered me and tied me up. I could not even see because of the blindfold.” The man replied.

“Apparently two of them had fun of their life here. They consumed your scotch and smoked your cigars. May be they were the bosses, they waited while others collected the booty.” The inspector informed him. He was looking at two empty wine glasses and two half burnt cigars at the table.

The guy kept quiet.

“And one of the bosses was a female. One glass and one cigar have lipstick on it.” The inspector was feeling himself to be no less than Sherlock Holmes.

“Oh my” the wife exclaimed, “What has this world come to?”

The guy had mixed feelings. He was sad and frightened as he had just been robbed and was yet to ascertain the losses. He was happy that the inspector thinks one of the robbers was a female. He was happy that his girl friend left just before the robbers arrived. He was happy that his insistence that his girl friend must wear gloves, was finally going to pay off.

Other common site for lipstick transfer is shirt collar of guys. Girls are emotional lot. They like to put their head on the shoulder of the guy and converse. They make little chit chat and the guy heads home.

“What is that on your shirt collar?” Question is raised either by mother or the wife, depending upon the marital status of the guy.

Mothers usually wear a warm smile while asking that questions.

Wives wear the look of terminator.

Same question with same effects from either mother or husband of the girl, “Why is your lipstick smudged?”

It was these uneasy questions that lead to the invention of lipstick that stays where it is meant to be. It will stick to the original lips and not transferred anywhere else.It was inspired by non stick cookware or other way round, can be debated.

KGB and other erstwhile spy agencies did lots of research on lipsticks. They laced it with poison so that anyone the bearer kissed, would die. Here the technology was different.

Poison was supposed not to affect the bearer but to be fatally delivered to the target. Thus, they developed glamorous brigade of assassins. The practice had to be stopped when the perpetrators started indulging in personal vendettas. They started kissing errant husbands and boyfriends. There were many unexplained civilian deaths.

Lipstick industry started its own research. They came up with lipsticks fortified with vitamins and other essential nutrients. Iron rich lipstick for anaemic females. Calcium and vitamin D enriched lipstick for strong bones.

Then there were lipsticks that change colour depending upon the level of blood flow to the lips. They would indicate the emotional status of the wearer. Invention of florescent lipsticks was best for dark places.

I wonder why the shirt industry for men has not taken a hint. By now there should have been shirts that repel lipstick, and no stain is left behind. May be they are busy inventing lipstick that gains colour only when applied on lips and remains invisible on any other surface.
