---
layout:     post
title:      "Bell done, Jobs"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2021-05-15 14:16:00
author:     "Gurpreet Singh Battu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
    - A
---

Graham Bell.

The name rings a bell, no?

He made the sound travel through a wire. When he said, “Mr Watson come here….. I want to see you,” he created history. The year was 1876. With those words he launched career and business of many telephone companies.

It took more than hundred years for the telephone to reach my city.  It took many more years to reach my home from my city. So naturally I never expected it to be means of fast communication. Allocation of connections was quite prejudiced. It started with government high officials and influential people. Telephone number of lone connection in the locality was circulated amongst all friends and relatives to call in case of emergency – real or feigned. It was mixture of status symbol and torture for the family that owned the telephone connection. It became their responsibility to deliver the message. Else the friendly neighbors would visit and wait for the call. Hospitality cost matched the cost of the call. Telephone in those days was a simple table mounted instrument. It was tethered to the wall socket with a cable. Through the wall, the cable went to the pole outside the house, from there it went underground and surfaced in the telephone exchange at the other end of the city.

Steve Jobs.

The name again rings a bell. Or may be a ring tone.

The year was 2011 when Steve Jobs reached the pearly gates. Saint Peter went through the life history and deeds of Steve. “Send him to Communications.” He announced.

“But sir, he is more of IT guy, no?” his assistant aired his doubts.

“Who is the boss here?” it was a gentle reminder from Saint Peter that settled the issue. “Mr Graham in Communications has been waiting for him.”

Steve Jobs was taken to department of Communications in Heavens and presented to Graham Bell.

“Aha, at last.” Graham welcomed Steve. “I have been watching you, my son.”

“First of all, thank you for your rudimentary invention,” Steve started, “It gave us apple opportunities, oh, I mean ample opportunities for improvement and business.”

“That is my first query,” Graham responded, “why the bitten and forbidden fruit?”

“Your invention was purely for communications.” Steve responded. “With our add ons like camera, video calls, messaging and net surfing, pure phone calls have been reduced to ten percent. Ninety percent activities are sinful. Thus, the bitten sin fruit is just a simple warning and reminder. Just like the visual warning on the pack of cigarettes.”

“Rather than heeding to the warning, people are flaunting the warning insignia as status symbol” Graham made the statement. “What was your purpose of creating a mobile phone?”

“To give people freedom of movement with connectivity.” Steve replied.

“Do you realise, you have provided freedom of movement to the phone only and have made the people slave of phone. My telephone gave the people freedom of movement. Once they stepped away from the landline, they were free. And connectivity? Person with a mobile is not connecting even to the person sitting next to him, he is so engrossed in his mobile. I have seen families or friends sitting in a room and all busy checking their mobile phones rather than connecting to each other.” Graham rued.

“What was your idea of telephone?” Steve asked.

“It is a secret, I can tell you now for the reason that you are no longer on earth. It was my wife’s idea. She always wanted to talk to me whenever she or I was away from home.” Graham smiled.

“Did she love you that much or did not trust you?” Steve was acting innocent.

“I refuse to answer that question.” Graham smiled. “I am sure mobile version of phone must have resulted in many broken marriages, by way of sinful activities.”

“Mobile phones created so many jobs. Everyone became a journalist, all became subject experts, criminals thrived, police hired tech people to tackle crime generated by mobiles. Every town had multiple experts who offered to ‘jailbreak’ my products. At least I justified my name.” Commented Jobs.

“There I agree with you,” Graham said giving a thumbs up, “Bell done, Jobs. I mean well done, Jobs.”

Steve moved close to Graham.

“Let’s have a selfie.”
