---
layout:     post
title:      "Hot in bed"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2021-11-06 16:06:00
author:     "Gurpreet Singh Battu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
    - A
---

“You are so hot.”

My wife was holding my hand and telling me that. And starting a day on that note can be the best thing to happen. That actually was the best compliment I got from her till date.

It took me some efforts to turn towards her and look into her eyes. Instead of romance, her eyes were full of horror.

“You have high fever.” She clarified the things for my benefit. With smoke of romance cleared, I could make out why it took me some efforts to turn towards her in the first place. The body refused to obey any commands. And the brain, being part of the body, refused to issue any commands. My position was reduced to a helpless bystander, to wait and watch what happens next.

The guy from the lab came. He cleaned his hands, he cleaned my arm, took out a syringe and collected blood.

“Take out all the germs.” I told him.

“What?” He was confused.

“Along with the blood, why don’t you suck out all the germ?” I made my position clear.

“Nobody has yet invented such a syringe, sir,” he made his position clear.

Job over, conversation over, he left.

Back came the envelope with the reports. It was officially established that I had dengue. My name had been added to the national statistics.

Victim of a mosquito bite.

A mosquito weighing a few milligrams and measuring even less millimetres, used some nanotechnology to inject me with the deadly virus. And for what? Tummy full of my blood, that would have taken less than one millilitre. The mosquito should have at least talked to me. I would have ensured lifelong supply of blood at its doorstep.

I am sure mosquito would not even know what I suffered after it had its fill of my blood and gave me the dreaded virus. It might have died of guilt, had it seen my sufferings.

Earlier mosquitoes were synonymous with malaria. With the turn of century, they upgraded their arsenal to dengue. And what we could do? We upgraded from DDT to Odomos. This effectively means, we have given up on mass extinction of mosquitoes and the situation has boiled down to individual protection. When a nation fails, we stand up for our own safety.

We have the capabilities of safeguarding our borders and striking at the doorsteps of the enemy. But what about saving the citizens from enemy in the backyard? Let us see if any political party promises mosquito-free cities, in addition to free power supply and free water connections.

Soon we might have mosquito repellent clothing. Or maybe, genetically modified food that will make our skin release odour that might repel mosquitoes. But then it has to be mosquito-specific. I don’t want to repel people whom I want to be close to me. We can have deodorants for that specific purpose – repel mosquitoes and attract people.

“So what if you fell ill because of my bite, look at the bright side.” Mosquito appeared in my dreams. I was trying to kill it with clapping action of my hands and it was trying to explain its position to me.

“What is the bright side to high fever, body aches and intravenous fluid line, not to speak of daily pricks for lab tests?” I was furious.

“We help the economy of the nation in a big way.” It buzzed.

I could not attend office for two weeks and it would be the same for all victims, how would that help economy?

“Look at the amount of repellent creams and their other variations available, bought and used.” Mosquito explained dodging my hands. “Number of plug-in machines to keep us at bay must be more than urban population. You cannot even imagine the number of employments that we generate and the companies that are thriving because of us.”

Come to think of it, guys. The total amount that we spend on individual protection and treatment year on year, might be more than budget of many ministries. Many commercial companies might actually be protecting mosquitoes. It is yours and mine life at stake.

Let’s save ourselves and not be hot in this manner.

Death to mosquitoes.
