---
layout:     post
title:      "Oh-My-Cron"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2022-01-15 13:23:00
author:     "Gurpreet Singh Battu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
    - A
---

“Tilt your head back,” the technician instructed as he advanced threateningly towards me with a swab stick in his hand. I felt as if I am going to be stabbed.

To stop imagining things, I closed my eyes as I tilted my head back.

“Relax.” This time the sound was intimidatingly closer. As if I can relax on command.

The sword entered my nose and reached my throat. I was waiting for my brain to be excavated when it was suddenly pulled out. I opened my eyes and was sure I will see my eyes or part of brain hanging from the tip of the swab stick. To my relief, there was nothing. Now I could relax.

Swab tip went into some solution and the drop of solution went on to a slide. Soon there appeared two red lines on the slide. I was reminded of the urine pregnancy test many years back, that confirmed that wife and I were to be parents soon. Oh my God, am I pregnant? The thought did cross my mind but was brushed aside by the declaration from the technician.

“You are covid positive sir,” he announced and suddenly moved away from me as if now I am holding the sword.

Declaring a positive pregnancy test was a matter of pride but being Covid positive was snide.

My room was declared my fiefdom for the next week. No one comes in and I do not go out.

Two days later, I got a call from a doctor.

“Good morning, sir. I am calling from the health department. You are Covid positive. Are you vaccinated?”

“Yes, I am fully vaccinated.” I was vaccinated for polio, smallpox, tuberculosis, diphtheria and many more diseases. I was vaccinated when I was a kid and I never contracted any of those diseases.

And it was not even a year since I was vaccinated for Covid and still the virus got better of me. Did they add water to the vaccine to meet the ever increasing demand?

“Please give us the details about your family members and their vaccination status.”

“I have a wife and a daughter at home. They are fully vaccinated, as I was.” That was supposed to be a little sarcastic, but the effect was lost on the caller.

“Please stay in isolation for next 10 days.”

You don’t have to say that, I have already been declared persona non grata.

“Have you received your corona kit?”

“No, I have not,” I replied.

There was no comment from the other side. Neither any hint of regret nor a promise of sending the kit at the earliest.

I was wondering what would be in the kit. I had read somewhere it contained some medicines to make the person feel better and frighten away the virus. Also included were a thermometer and a pulse oximeter. But I had already procured everything ever since I was declared positive.

I needed a kit that contained:

OTT subscriptions for 10 days at least
Enough data to enjoy OTT subscription
Daily newspapers
Magazines and books to suffice for the isolation period.
Popcorn and coke vouchers for every movie that I watch.

Then there was a call on the third day. It was an automated call.

“We are calling from government health department. For selecting language, press button with number on it.”

I selected English.

“If you have fever press 1, else press 2.”

I had fever for the first two days. I did not receive any call at that time. I pressed 2.

“If you have cough press 1, else press 2.”

I had mild and minimal cough, but there was no option for that. I wanted to press 1.5 but ended up pressing 2.

I also pressed 2 for many other options, including oxygen saturation, which I was supposed to measure with the pulse oximeter that was part of the kit not provided to me.

To break the monotony, I selected the Hindi language next day and pressed 2 many times.

Third day, I selected Punjabi.

I stopped answering the call fourth day onwards.

They should have programmed the call as, “If you want to receive veg pulao, press 1, for non-veg press 2. For soup to be delivered at doorstep, press 3, for pizza or burger press 4.”

For me, Oh My God was converted to Oh-My-Cron.
