---
layout:     post
title:      "56 Years"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2022-02-19 14:45:00
author:     "Gurpreet Singh Battu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
    - A
---

The yogi was looking at me without saying anything. He was holding my birth certificate.

17 th Feb 1966 – the certificate read.

I knew that look very well.

It was the same look that I give to animals or dumb people.

The Yogi was a learned man with a Dumbledore like beard. And had the same level of wisdom I hoped.

“What is the purpose of life?” I had asked him. A dear friend, Tinny, had been pestering me with that question.

“You have completed 56 years of life on this earth, you tell me what you understand about life.” The Yogi counter questioned me. I knew very well he was just trying to assess my IQ so that he could phrase his reply accordingly.

“I have been trying to figure that out. Many learned men tried to decipher my fate in this world by looking at my birth certificate. It has time and date and place of my birth. Then like an expert astronomer, they figured out the configuration of various stars and planets and satellites and winds and storms and everything else in the universe at the time of my birth. And then they made some predictions that made my parents happy and some more predictions that worried my parents.” I explained.

“So why have you come to me?” the Yogi asked.

“To understand why life is so tough. I have been working so hard for all these 56 years. I have been studying or trying to earn my wages for almost all these years.”

“Nowhere on your birth certificate has been mentioned that life will be a bed of thorn-free roses.” The Yogi was as nonchalant as ever.

That was a point for me to ponder. Birth certificates should come like a label on any other product. May be we can call ourselves ‘Reproduct’. Products come from production, similarly ‘Reproducts’ come from reproduction. We all should have a bar code on the birth certificate. It should mention the date when the idea of having a child was established, date when conceived, number of attempts in which conceived, quality assurance, warranty date and expiry date. And a picture of the universe depicting position of all the stars at the time of birth.

Still, that would not explain the purpose of life.

“I believe we all are here to serve humanity, to look after each other, to make this world a better place and so on.” I poured out the little wisdom that I had accumulated over these 56 years.

“That is politically correct statement. This statement might help you get a job or few claps at some declamation.” Time for the Yogi to spread his wisdom. “But the truth is – you were born out of an activity, primary aim of which was pleasure. No aim or purpose is assigned to any newborn. By default survival became the basic purpose of life. Means to survival resulted in spread of hatred and wars, arms race, industrialization, and this contributed to global warming, deforestation and plundering of the natural resources. and grow at the expense of others. As of today, I feel the purpose of life is to destroy life itself and the planet. Everyone contributes, only the degree varies.” The Yogi handed back my birth certificate to me.

We might philosophize life in whichever way but I guess the Yogi has told the truth.

Me and my friends are on a peace mission. Instead of arms race, we are involved in beer race. We are trying to figure out if we can finish beer faster than Vijay Mallya can produce it.
